Git basic commands:

1. To checkout/clone the git repository.
    git clone (git_web_url_repo)
    
2. To checkout the branch. 
    git checkout (branchName/dev/master)

3. To checkout the branch forcefully.
    git checkout -f (branchName/dev/master)
    
4. To check the log history of the checkout branch.
    git log

5. To check the history of specific file in git.
    gitk (filename)

6. To Check the status of branch. It shows the change log with untracked files as well.
    git status

7. To create new local branch in git.
    git checkout -b "branch name"

8. To add the list of changes in local branch in git.
    git add filename/foldername(for specific file name) or * (to add all changes together)
    
9. To commit the changes in local branch in git.
    git commit filename/foldername(for specific file name) or blank(to commit all newly added changes) -m "commit message like defect fix, story name, etc"

10. To check the diff from head version of file in git.
    git diff specific file name.

11. To push the code commit in head branch or dev or master in git.
    git push origin (branchName/dev/master)

12. To store the local changes temporarily in git. It is useful at the time of taking branch update in the middle when doing changes in the same branch. 
    git stash
    
13. To apply the temporary local changes in the updated feature branch.
    git stash apply
    
14. To update the git branch.
    git pull origin (branchname)

15. To reset the checkout branch to mentioned commit id.
    git reset --hard (commit id)
    
16. To reset the dev branch forcefully to its origin state. 
    git reset --hard origin/(branchName)
    
17. To delete the local branch.
    git branch -D (local feature branchName)

18. To delete the specific file in the git.
    find . -name '*.orig' -delete
    
19. To merge the code in git.
    git merge (branch name) (first checkout the branch in which you want to merge the code and then run this command)

20. To fetch the list of local/remote branches in git.
    git fetch
    
21. To check the list of available branch in git.
    git branch

22. To come out from the current directory in git.
    cd .. 

23. To clean the untracked files/directory.
    git clean -fd
    
24. To get the updated list of git branches
	git checkout master
	git pull --rebase
	now checkout the respective branch using mentioned command
	git checkout (branchName/dev/master)
